              NoStreak V 1.3 -- (c) 1999 by Till Harbaum

                       t.harbaum@tu-bs.de 
              http://www.ibr.cs.tu-bs.de/~harbaum/pilot

This program is freeware/open source. Please read the file COPYING that
came with this archive.

- What's new in version 1.3?
Version 1.3 can be configured to adjust the refresh rate in black'n white
mode only (best for most greyscale games, but needs contrast adjustment when
starting these games) or to affect the greyscale modes as well (some 
shades of grey 'flicker', but no contrast adjustment needed for greyscale 
programs like avantgo).

- What's new in version 1.2?
You can now configure the refresh rate in hackmaster. The default value
for an activated NoStreak is 2. But once the hack is activated you can 
change the value in the config form (the refresh rate decreases with 
higher values, with a value of 5 the refresh is that low, that the 
flickering starts to get annoying, 0 is the original system value
which is also used without nostreak installed).

The config form does not affect the screen while NoStreak is disabled.
If you change the value and then disable NoStreak, the changed value 
is still used, but may be changed by the system after some time.

Also after a reset the refresh is set to the default refresh value (which 
is 2).

- What's new in version 1.1?
Greyscale did not really work with version 1.0.

- What is NoStreak?
Some Palm IIIx displays have the 'streaking' problem. They tend to extend
vertical lines (can be seen in the datebook month view) . Sometimes this 
can be adjusted by reducing the contrast using the contrast adjustment wheel.

This problem can sometimes be solved with software by changing the display
refresh frequency. This is what this program does.

- Installation
NoStreak is a hackmaster extension and needs hackmaster to run. Once hackmaster
and NoStreak are installed, you can enable NoStreak in the hackmaster 
application.

- What about other Palms?
This program was written for the Palm IIIx. Please don't use it on other
machines.

- Speed increase
There is a small system speed increase with this hack. This is due to reduced 
memory bandwidth used by the video controller because of the reduced screen 
refresh rate. Therefore, more bandwidth remains for use by the system CPU 
causing the pilot to run slightly faster.
